If your games keep stuttering and you
get low FPS or FPS drops on your PC or
laptop, this video is the one for you.
I'm going to show you how to boost FPS,
fix stutters, and FPS drops by using a
free Windows optimizer to optimize your
Windows PC without any BS. So, let's get
right into it. But before using the
utility, I benchmark three games. Those
being Fortnite, and these are the
settings that I will be using for both
before and after benchmarks. Minecraft
is up next. And finally, we got Rocket
League. And here are the settings for
the benchmarks. As you can see,
everything is pretty much set to high
quality. Here are roughly the before
values for average FPS that we are
getting. We will go more in depth with
the stats and everything at the end. So,
this is what you get after downloading
it from the Google Drive link. The
utility in the form of a batch script, a
readme that says that it can be false
flagged by Windows, which actually
happened to the lost optimizer I showed
as well. This happens because these
softwares make a lot of changes to
Windows and are of course not signed by
Microsoft which is really expensive.
Then here are all the resources that it
will be using consisting of auto runs, a
program used to disable a lot of apps,
tasks and services from starting up
automatically. a custom Nvidia profile,
a custom power plan, their own
wallpaper, very cool, a download link
for the Nvidia profile inspector, the
source code, which I did skim through
and found nothing malicious, but I would
still recommend that you go through this
yourself, too. And finally, the Windows
update blocker. Before applying
anything, let's create a restore point.
I'm just going to name it before exam so
I can remember it just to make sure that
I can revert the changes if something
goes wrong. All right, now that that's
done, let's run the optimizer as admin.
Oh, I have to full screen it. Welcome.
We are not responsible for blah blah
blah. Press any key to continue. Restore
point. So, it does give you that option
here. That's good. But we have already
created one. So, let's skip the restore
point. It's scanning for resources.
Resources not found or out ofd. Press
okay to download them. Okay. So, it's
downloading the resources that I just
showed you again inside the C drive in
the XM folder. That is kind of stupid,
but I do get the point of relocating
them. Downloaded resources successfully.
Okay, and here we are finally inside the
tweaking utility. It was recently
updated, so that's a good thing. Let's
start with general Windows
optimizations. Apply general registry
and Windows optimizations, M for menu,
and we can revert tweaks too. It applies
general optimizations in registry,
Windows settings, PCD edit, and more.
Let's do it. So after applying a bunch
of changes, it opens up the animations
here. We need to uncheck everything
except these three according to him. So
sure, let's follow him and do as he
says. Apply and okay, full screen. So I
suppose these are the full screen
exclusive optimizations. One to set FSE
for Windows 11 and two to set FSE for
Windows 10. We can also skip these
steps, but since I'm on Windows 11,
let's press one. Operation completed.
Press any key to continue. Game mode.
Enable game mode for Windows 11 and
disable game mode for Windows 10. That's
not good, but still let's press one.
Core isolation. Disabling core isolation
boosts performance but leaves you more
vulnerable to driver-based attacks. So,
if you care about the security, just
skip this one, but I'm going to disable
it for the video. Let's move on to power
optimizations. Do not do these if your
PC has overheating issues. Well, my PC
certainly doesn't, so let's do it. Apply
EXM free power plan V7. Yes, I'm using
my own custom power plan, but sure,
let's switch it to his one. Increases
performance and decreases latency. May
increase temperature. Disable power
saving features. Yes, of course. Disable
power telemetry. Yes. Delete useless
power plans. So, it's going to delete
the default Windows power plans. Let's
just skip this one. Disable hibernation,
fast startup, and more. Sure, let's do
it. Disable GPU power saving features.
Yes, of course. Wait, why does it say
Nvidia GPU? I have an AMD GPU, and
that's weird. But let's just continue.
Next are the keyboard and mouse
optimizations. Optimizes a bunch of
mouse and keyboard related registry
settings. Apply KBM registry
optimizations. Sure. So, it just
disables mouse acceleration and a bunch
of other annoying settings. Set KBM data
Q size. Oh, this one can really mess up
the input if not set correctly. Let's
see. So, it gives you three options, 13,
18, and 22. I would recommend most of
you to go either 18 or 22 just to be
safe. Even though my system can handle
even 10, I'm just going to go with 22
for the sake of the video. Let's go
back. Apply USB optimizations. Okay, so
it disables USB power savings and set
some thread priorities. GPU
optimizations. So, it once again detects
that I have an [music] Nvidia GPU even
though I'm on AMD. So, let's go to other
GPU brands. Apply AMD GPU [music]
optimizations. And it just did a bunch
of changes. Hopefully, it doesn't break
anything. Next are the CPU
optimizations. Do not do these if your
PC has bad overheating issues. Apply CPU
optimizations for Intel CPUs. General
CPU optimizations, disables power
saving, C states, and more. So, let's
apply these. Once done, let's head back.
Next is PC clean temporary device data.
So, I assume it's like the device
cleanup tool that clears the remains of
devices that were once connected to the
PC but are no longer connected. Windows
Clean Manager. So, it just opens up the
disc cleanup utility. So, let's clean
up. So, we have to select everything
here except the DirectX shader cache.
And it's going to clear out more than
500 MBs of junk. Let's press okay and
delete files. Wait for it to finish. And
by the way, it's completely safe since
it is a built-in utility for Windows.
Now that it's done, let's head back.
Next one is the system debloat. If you
want to revert anything, you can do it
in or revert category on the main page
of the utility. So, I believe it's
talking about the fixes and reverts
right here. Disable game DVR and Xbox.
Of course, we want to disable them.
Disable telemetry. So, telemetry is
basically the Microsoft spying services
that collect data. So, yes, we want to
disable them and there's a lot of it.
Toggle Bluetooth. Disable printing and
maps. Sure, let's disable them. Toggle
mitigations. So, you can disable
mitigations and also reenable them from
here. Let's just disable them.
Mitigations are protections against
memory based attacks, but they come at a
performance cost. So, this should
improve performance by disabling them.
Disable diagnostics and error reporting.
Yes, of course. Toggle Microsoft Store.
So, this one lets you disable Microsoft
Store and enable it if you need it.
Disable HyperV. Breaks virtual machines.
Most of you guys don't use VMs, so you
should disable it. But I personally do
use virtual machines, so I'm just going
to skip this one. Disable startup apps.
Let's [music] see. So, it's going to
launch auto runs, the app that I showed
you in the resources. So, once
everything loads up, let's just go
through the loon tab and uncheck
everything here that we don't want to
start up with Windows. I'm also going to
go through the schedule tasks and
services tab just to make sure that I
turn off everything. Once done, let's go
back. Windows update blocker. Disabling
Windows updates will break Microsoft
Store. If you want to use it again,
simply press enable in Windows update
blocker. So, here we can disable the
updates and protect service settings,
but I'm going to keep them enabled since
I paused them from the settings.
Anyways, disable smart screen. It's that
blue box that appears if you run
something not signed by Microsoft, which
isn't too useful unless you are really
concerned about security. So, let's just
disable it. Uninstall useless apps.
Uninstall Windows pre-installed apps.
So, this is going to automatically
remove the apps that come installed with
Windows, which can delete some apps that
you want to use. So, let's not do this
one. Uninstall useless apps via
settings. All right, let's open it up.
Inside of here, you can go through this
list and simply uninstall anything that
you don't want on your PC, like this
camera app that I don't use at all.
Uninstall Microsoft Edge. Uninstall
Cortana/Copilot.
Yes, please. I want to remove this junk
from my PC. All right, that's done.
Storage optimizations. Trim/defragment
drives. Well, it's not really
recommended to defrag SSDs, but if you
have a hard drive, use this option.
Disable right cache buffer flushing.
Once again, no. Optimize NTFS. Let's do
this one. Optimize last access time
behavior and 8.3, of course. SSD boot
drive. Yes, I'm using an SSD. Disable
storage power savings. I'm going to
select the SSD option once again. Let's
go back to the menu. Memory
optimizations optimizes a bunch of RAM
related registry settings for optimal
performance. Disables a bunch of useless
features which hinder your performance.
So here you want to select the RAM you
have. Let's open the task manager. Then
go to performance and under memory you
can see that I have 8 gigs of RAM on
this machine. So I'm going to select the
option number two and hit enter. And it
applied all these changes.
Additional/quality of life. Set exm
wallpaper. Better wallpaper quality.
Show. Let's do it. Disable UAC. This
will just remove the annoying pop-up
when you run something as admin. Show
file extensions and dark mode are
already enabled. Real Fortnite ping.
Let's check this one out. I'm going to
select the Middle East server. And now
it's going to ping the Fortnite servers
there. Well, that took quite some time,
but the average result is about the same
as I get in my game. So, it's not really
that helpful. Exm network tweaking
utility create a restore point. I'm just
going to skip this one. What harm could
it possibly do? Well, future me here.
So, it did a lot of harm. After applying
these network tweaks, Epic Games
Launcher just wouldn't connect to the
internet. So, I had to reset my network
to make it work. So, yeah, back to the
video. Just make sure that you create
the restore point. This one has a lot of
options in here which we can apply from
here. But what he recommends is that you
go through this tutorial and then apply
these settings. So let's do that. So
after applying everything, let's check
out the fixes and rewords, quick fixes
and reward categories. So this is
everything that you can fix in case they
break. What is 5M doing here? Anyways,
completely optimize your PC. Yeah, it
just opens up their website. So I
believe that's all. Let's exit the
utility and restart the PC for all the
changes to apply properly. Finally, we
can look at the benchmarks. Starting
[music] with Fortnite, as you can see,
it improved by about 4.1 average FPS,
while the 1% lows and.1% lows are pretty
much the same. Here's also the in-game
sideby-side comparison, and we can
definitely see an improvement, but it's
just not as much. Let's [music] put down
the average FPS we are roughly getting
inside of our Notepad. Moving on to
Minecraft, the average FPS improved by
about 5 FPS, while the 1% lows and
the.1% lows saw some good improvement.
The side-by-side comparison shows not
too much of a difference at all, but
let's just note down the average FPS on
a notepad once again. Finally, we have
Rocket League. So, this one is really
interesting. As you can see, before we
were getting average FPS above 200,
which dropped down to 169 after using
this optimizer, well, the 1% lows and.1%
lows saw some improvement because it was
dropping a lot before, which it still
does as you can see from the sidebyside
in-game comparison. But the overall
average FPS dropped quite a bit. Let's
put it into our Notepad 2. And here's
the final verdict. I expected it to give
us at least 25% improvement, but yeah,
it pretty much failed to deliver. Is it
still any good? I would say yes. Rather
than not doing any optimizations, you
should definitely try this one out.
There's one more very important thing
that I forgot to tell